Logs Read Data permission details (#7298)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/account_management/rbac/permissions.md

| Name                         | Description                                | Scopable |
| ---------------------------- | ------------------------------------------ | -------- |

> | logs_read_data               | Read a subset log data (query based)       | true     |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| logs_read_data               | Read access to log data. If granted, other restrictions then apply (like `logs_read_index_data` or with restriction queries)       | true     |
```

> | logs_read_data               | Read access to log data. If granted, other restrictions then apply (like `logs_read_index_data` or with restriction queries)       | true     |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| logs_read_data               | Read access to log data. If granted, other restrictions then apply (like `logs_read_index_data` or with restriction queries).       | true     |
```

> | logs_read_index_data         | Read a subset log date (index based)       | true     |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| logs_read_index_data         | Read a subset of indexed log data       | true     |
```

typo on data

### Log Data Access

Grant the following permissions to manage read access on subsets of log data:

* `logs_read_data`(Recommended) offers finer grained access control over log data thanks to restriction queries.
* `logs_read_index_data` is the alternative approach to restrict data access to indexed log data on a per-index basis.

Those two permissions are applied sequentially meaning that a user can be restricted to a subset of indexes and the restriction queries apply on top of it.

**Example**: User A has access to index `audit` and index `errors` and is restricted to the query `service:api`.
When looking in Log Explorer, this user only sees logs from the `service:api` into the `audit` and `errors` indexes.

In addition, access to the Live Tail can be restricted with the `logs_live_tail` permission regardless of the data access restriction of the user.

#### logs_read_data

> Read access to log data. If granted, other restrictions then apply such as `logs_read_index_data` or with [restriction query][4].

Reviewer 3: "The `logs_read_data` permission is required to grant a role read access to log data. Additionally, you can limit the scope of the role's access by applying a [Restriction Query](/api/?lang=bash#roles-restriction-queries-for-logs)."

"A Restriction Query is a logs query that restricts which logs the `logs_read_data` permission grants read access to. For users whose roles have Restriction Queries, any log query they make only returns those log events that also match one of their Restriction Queries. This is true whether the user queries log events from any log-related feature, including the log explorer, Live Tail, rehydration, or a dashboard widget."

^^ It may also be worth reiterating the relationship between logs_read_index_data and logs_read_data here.

If a user belongs to multiple roles, permissions combine one with another. 

**Example**:

* If a user belongs to a role with log read data and also belongs to a role without log read data, then they have the permission to read data.

> * If a user has a restriction to `service:sandbox` through one role, and has another restriction to `env:staging` through another role, then that user can access all `env:staging` logs (even those that are not from `service:sandbox`, and conversely.

Reviewer 3: * If a user is restricted to `service:sandbox` through one role, and has is restricted to `env:staging` through another role, then the user can access all `env:staging` and `service:sandbox` logs.

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Datadog application" %}}

> **Global access**:

Reviewer 3: **Grant global read access to log data**

Go to your [Datadog Roles page][1] and select the checkbox `read` as below for the wanted role:

{{< img src="account_management/rbac/logs_read_data_access.png" alt="Read Data Access"  style="width:70%;">}}

> **Subset of Data**:

Reviewer 3: **Restrict read access to a subset of logs**

### Log Data Access

Grant the following permissions to manage read access on subsets of log data:

> * `logs_read_data`(Recommended) It offers finer grained access control over log data thanks to restriction queries.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `logs_read_data`(Recommended) offers finer grained access control over log data thanks to restriction queries.
```

* `logs_read_index_data` is the alternative approach to restrict data access to indexed log data on a per-index basis.

> Those two permissions are applied sequentially. Meaning that a user can be restricted to a subset of indexes and the restriction queries apply on top of it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Those two permissions are applied sequentially meaning that a user can be restricted to a subset of indexes and the restriction queries apply on top of it.
```

> **Example**: User A has access to index `audit` and index `errors` and is restricted to the query `service:api`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Example**: User A has access to index `audit` and index `errors` and is restricted to the query `service:api`.
```

> When looking into the log explorer, this user only sees logs from the `service:api` into the `audit` and `errors` indexes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When looking in Log Explorer, this user only sees logs from the `service:api` into the `audit` and `errors` indexes.
```

> In addition, access to the Livetail can be restricted with the `logs_live_tail` permission regardless of the data access restriction of the user.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In addition, access to the Live Tail can be restricted with the `logs_live_tail` permission regardless of the data access restriction of the user.
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

#### logs_read_data

> Read access to log data. If granted, other restrictions then apply. Such as `logs_read_index_data` or with [restriction query][4].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Read access to log data. If granted, other restrictions then apply such as `logs_read_index_data` or with [restriction query][4].
```

If a user belongs to multiple roles, permissions combine one with another. 

**Example**:

> * If a user belongs to a Role with Log Read Data and also belongs to a Role without Log Read Data, then he has the permission to read data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* If a user belongs to a role with log read data and also belongs to a role without log read data, then they have the permission to read data.
```

> * If a user has a restriction to `service:sandbox` through one Role, and has another restriction to `env:staging` through another Role, then that user can access all `env:staging` logs (even those that are not from `service:sandbox`. And conversely.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* If a user has a restriction to `service:sandbox` through one role, and has another restriction to `env:staging` through another role, then that user can access all `env:staging` logs (even those that are not from `service:sandbox`, and conversely.
```

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Datadog application" %}}

**Global access**:

Go to your [Datadog Roles page][1] and select the checkbox `read` as below for the wanted role:

{{< img src="account_management/rbac/logs_read_data_access.png" alt="Read Data Access"  style="width:70%;">}}

**Subset of Data**:

> This configuration is only supported through API

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This configuration is only supported through the API.
```

[1]: https://app.datadoghq.com/access/roles
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "API" %}}

Revoke or grant this permission from a role via [the Roles API][1]. 
Use [Restriction Queries][2] to scope the permission to a subset of Log Data. 

> [1]: /api/#roles

Reviewer 2: When the new website rolls out on Monday, I'll make sure to update these links for you 👍

> [2]: /api/?lang=bash#roles-restriction-queries-for-logs

Reviewer 2: Note: This link will not work starting Monday as we're redirecting to the new API page. Do we have an ETA on the status of the spec file for this?

The following permissions can be granted to manage read access on subsets of log data:

> * `logs_read_data` is the preferred approach, as it offers finer grained access control over [indexed][3] log data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `logs_read_data`(Recommended) It offers finer grained access control over indexed log data thanks to restriction queries.
```

> * `logs_read_index_data` is the alternative approach to restrict data access to [indexed][3] log data on a per-index basis.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `logs_read_index_data` is the alternative approach to restrict data access to indexed log data on a per-index basis.
```

> Even though we recommend to user either `logs_read_data` or `logs_read_index_data` to restrict access to logs, using both is a valid option. Datadog combines both restrictions and grants access only to data authorised by both permissions. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Those two permissions are applied sequentially. Meaning that a user can be restricted to a subset of indexes and the restriction queries apply on top of it.

**Example**: User A has access to index `audit` and index `errors` and is restricted to the query `service:api`

When looking into the log explorer, this user only sees logs from the `service:api` into the `audit` and `errors` indexes.
```

> Besides indexed data, `logs_live_tail` restricts access to the Log Livetail as a whole. Note: Log Livetail is a on/off restriction and does not yet support scoping to a subset of logs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition, access to the Livetail can be restricted with the `logs_live_tail` permission regardless of the data access restriction of the user.
```

#### logs_read_data

> Grants a role read access on indexed logs. Can be set either globally, or scoped to limited to a subset of logs as defined per a [restriction query][4].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Read access to log data. If granted, other restrictions then apply. Such as `logs_read_index_data` or with [restriction query][4].
```

> If a user belongs to multiple roles, permissions combine one with another. For instance :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a user belongs to multiple roles, permissions combine one with another. 

**Example**:
```

> The following permissions can be granted to manage read access on subsets of log data:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Grant the following permissions to manage read access on subsets of log data:
```

> * `logs_read_data`(Recommended) It offers finer grained access control over indexed log data thanks to restriction queries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `logs_read_data`(Recommended) It offers finer grained access control over log data thanks to restriction queries.
```

* `logs_read_index_data` is the alternative approach to restrict data access to indexed log data on a per-index basis.

Those two permissions are applied sequentially. Meaning that a user can be restricted to a subset of indexes and the restriction queries apply on top of it.

> **Example**: User A has access to index `audit` and index `errors` and is restricted to the query `service:api`
> 
> When looking into the log explorer, this user only sees logs from the `service:api` into the `audit` and `errors` indexes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Example**: User A has access to index `audit` and index `errors` and is restricted to the query `service:api`
When looking into the log explorer, this user only sees logs from the `service:api` into the `audit` and `errors` indexes.
```

In addition, access to the Livetail can be restricted with the `logs_live_tail` permission regardless of the data access restriction of the user.

#### logs_read_data

Read access to log data. If granted, other restrictions then apply. Such as `logs_read_index_data` or with [restriction query][4].

If a user belongs to multiple roles, permissions combine one with another. 

**Example**:

* If a user belongs to a Role with Log Read Data and also belongs to a Role without Log Read Data, then he has the permission to read data.
* If a user has a restriction to `service:sandbox` through one Role, and has another restriction to `env:staging` through another Role, then that user can access all `env:staging` logs (even those that are not from `service:sandbox`. And conversely.

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Datadog application" %}}

**Global access**:

Go to your [Datadog Roles page][1] and select the checkbox `read` as below for the wanted role:

{{< img src="account_management/rbac/logs_read_data_access.png" alt="Read Data Access"  style="width:90%;">}}

**Subset of Data**:

This configuration is only supported through API

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[1]: /api/#roles
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "API" %}}

> This permission can be granted or revoked from a role via [the Roles API][1]. Use [Restriction Queries][2] to scope the permission to a subset of Log Data. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Revoke or grant this permission from a role via [the Roles API][1]. 
Use [Restriction Queries][2] to scope the permission to a subset of Log Data. 
```

> 

Reviewer 3: Does this no longer work if the `logs_read_data` is not applied? We have customers (Disney+, Starbucks) that have automated sync to keep their RBAC in sync with their AWS roles and permissions. Introducing a new permission will be overwritten, so we need to clarify here the regression if `logs_read_data` is now required that this permission is now `restrictive`

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

#### logs_live_tail

> Grants a role the ability to use the live tail feature.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Grants a role the ability to use the Live Tail feature.
```

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Datadog application" %}}

Go to your [Datadog Roles page][1] and select the checkbox `read` as below for the wanted role:
{{< img src="account_management/rbac/logs_livetail_access.png" alt="Create a custom Role"  style="width:90%;">}}

[1]: https://app.datadoghq.com/access/roles
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "API" %}}

This permission can be granted or revoked from a role via [the Roles API][1].

[1]: /api/#roles
{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

## Further Reading

{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

[1]: /account_management/users/#edit-a-user-s-roles

> [2]: /api/#get-permissions

Reviewer 2: Same here, made a note to update these links on Monday 👍
